About

As health and safety continues to be a priority for consumers, alternative ways to complete vital transactions. The need to minimize touchpoints has influenced behaviors in a big way. Many have switched to online shopping to avoid crowds in physical stores. The use of paper bills and coins have also been discouraged to prevent the further spread of the virus. The shift from cash-only to contact-free payments has almost been overnight. As think tank McKinsey put it, the pandemic pushed many businesses over the tech tipping point, accelerating digitization by 3 to even 5 years. 

Against this backdrop, our group decided to explore one touch payment systems using QR (Quick Response) code technology. 

What is QR code technology? 

We’ll leave experts to explain what QR code technology is. Sumit Tiwari, in "An Introduction to QR Code Technology," a paper presented at the 2016 International Conference on Information Technology (ICIT), writes:

“QR i.e. "Quick Response" code is a 2D matrix code that is designed by keeping two points under consideration, i.e. it must store large amount of data as compared to 1D barcodes and it must be decoded at high speed using any handheld device like phones. QR code provides high data storage capacity, fast scanning, omnidirectional readability, and many other advantages including, error-correction (so that damaged code can also be read successfully) and different type of versions. Different varieties of QR code symbols like logo QR code, encrypted QR code, iQR Code are also available so that user can choose among them according to their need. Now these days, a QR code is applied in different application streams related to marketing, security, academics etc. and gain popularity at a really high pace. Day by day more people are getting aware of this technology and use it accordingly. The popularity of QR code grows rapidly with the growth of smartphone users and thus the QR code is rapidly arriving at high levels of acceptance worldwide.”

Why QR code technology is disruptive

While QR code technology has been around for a while, its use in contact-free payments and information transfer can be considered disruptive. Here are some examples of how: 

Loyalty to Cash 

Payment apps like GCash, PayMaya and Paypal have long had QR codes capabilities for point of sales (meaning you can scan the code to pay for your purchases in physical stores). However, before the pandemic, there has been low use of this, despite many Filipinos using these apps via their smartphones to make online purchases or to send money. 

A report from Manila Bulletin, dated November 23, 2020, reveals that “in 2017, 96% of transactions in the Philippines were still done with cash”. This number is slowly going down, due to health restrictions. 

QR codes reduce the risk for shoppers who still like going to physical stores by reducing the touchpoints. Less cash being exchanged means less opportunities for transmission of the virus. 

Contact-free Order Systems 

Restaurants and shops are now using QR codes to efficiently convey information to their customers. 

In the past, it was highly unlikely that a restaurant would use a fully-digital and downloadable menu. Today, we believe that this will become the norm - not just for accessing information but for ordering food as well. 

Contact Tracing 

Contact tracing is an important part of living with the virus and preventing its spread as it helps authorities alert others in case they had contact with a COVID-positive individual. 

However, filling up a form about where you have been and where you can be contacted is tedious. Not only does it contribute to lower mobility, especially for retail areas (who will want to roam around a mall when you have to fill up a form at every shop); the information is hard to compile. 

Filipinos who were previously averse to QR codes are now trying it out because forms generated via these codes are easier to fill up. What’s more, in most malls and leisure destinations, you only need to enter your information once and you’re set.  
